# RoLaSTIM_Python
RoLaSTIM is an operational lakeshore type identification method to classify lakeshore segments as natural and artificial types.

Version 1.0: December 12, 2025.

Overview
===================================================================================================================================================================
RoLaSTIM (Robust Lake Shore Type Identification Method) is an operational method for accurately classifying lakeshores as artificial or natural and assessing lakeshore utilization rates (SURs) based on spatial analysis and remote-sensing-derived land cover data. RoLaSTIM proves suitable for robust and consistent lakeshore classification across regional, continental, and global scales, supporting efficient lakeshore utilization assessment and long-term monitoring. 

Tutorial for using RoLaSTIM
===================================================================================================================================================================
Run the script ‘main_rolastim.py’ in Spyder to generate lakeshore type maps in shapefile format (polyline). This script will call the ‘thiessen.py’ and ‘as_pctg.py’ scripts. 
1. The data required for ‘main_rolastim.py’ include the land cover data of lakeshores (found in the ‘RoLaSTIM_data/input/lakeshore_buffer_raster’ folder) and the lake exterior polygons (found in the ‘RoLaSTIM_data/input/lake_exterior_ploygon’ folder). 
2. Update the ‘roi’ variable in ‘main_rolastim.py’ and adjust the paths to the land cover data and lake exterior polygons according to your device and environment.

Although the lakeshore maps generated by RoLaSTIM are polylines, they actually represent the type of a lakeshore zone segment rather than a lake shoreline segment.

Note: We have uploaded input and output data as a compressed file, i.e., ‘RoLaSTIM_data.rar’, due to the large number of files and the data volume. The scripts were not compressed and were uploaded to the ‘RoLaSTIM_code’ folder. Please ensure you update the paths to the inputs and outputs in the main script, i.e., ‘main_rolastim.py’, when using RoLaSTIM. The path updating could be unnecessary if you put the uncompressed ‘RoLaSTIM_data’ folder and the ‘RoLaSTIM_code’ folder under the same directory.

Should you have any questions or find any bugs, please feel free to contact Yongquan Zhao (yongquanzhao181@gmail.com). We will keep maintaining the code. Welcome feedback!

Copyright and License
===================================================================================================================================================================
Copyright (c) 2025 Yongquan Zhao, Ningjing Institute of Geography and Limnology, Chinese Academy of Sciences (NIGLAS).

This repository is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-SA 4.0) license.
